README.md, before:

# MTMLDA: Within-Chain Parallelism for Multilevel MCMC based on Prefetching

> [!CAUTION]
> MTMLDA is a library developed in the course of a research project, not as a dedicated tool. As
 such such, it has been tested for a number of example use cases, but not with an exhaustive test suite. Therefore, we currently do not intend to upload this library to a public index.

This repository contains a specialized implementation of the *Multilevel Delayed Acceptance* (MLDA) algorithm. MLDA is a multilevel *Markov Chain Monte Carlo* method, which has been proposed [here](https://doi.org/10.1137/22M1476770). Like other multilevel sampling procedures, MLDA utilizes a hierarchy of models that approximate the target distribution with varying fidelities. The implemented version comprises within-chain parallelism through [prefetching](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1198/106186006X100579), the expansion of possible future states of the Markov chain in a binary decision tree. The target density evaluations at these states can be performed in parallel, potentially increasing MCMC execution speed. This is particularly useful for scenarios where burn-in is significant, such that parallelizaion through multiple chains is inefficient. We combine MLDA with asynchronous prefetching, to make full use of a hierarchy of models with potentially vastly different evaluation times. The theoretical background and conceptual setup of the implementation can be found in the accompanying publication, ***Scalable Bayesian Inference of Large Simulations via Asynchronous Prefetching Multilevel Delayed Acceptance (to be published)***.

## Installation

The library in this repository is a Python package readily installable via `pip`, simply run
```bash
python pip install .
```
For development, we recommend using the great uv project management tool, for which Eikonax provides a universal lock file. To set up a reproducible environment, run 
```bash
uv sync --all-groups
```

## Usage







## License

This Software is distributed under the [MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) license.

It has been developed as part of the innovation study **ScalaMIDA**. It has received funding through the **Inno4scale** project, which is funded by the European High-Performance Computing Joint Un-
dertaking (JU) under Grant Agreement No 101118139. The JU receives support from the European Union’s Horizon Europe Programme.

Commit message:

docs(readme): Add links to docs and examples

README.md, after:

# MTMLDA: Within-Chain Parallelism for Multilevel MCMC based on Prefetching

> [!CAUTION]
> MTMLDA is a library developed in the course of a research project, not as a dedicated tool. As
 such such, it has been tested for a number of example use cases, but not with an exhaustive test suite. Therefore, we currently do not intend to upload this library to a public index.

This repository contains a specialized implementation of the *Multilevel Delayed Acceptance* (MLDA) algorithm. MLDA is a multilevel *Markov Chain Monte Carlo* method, which has been proposed [here](https://doi.org/10.1137/22M1476770). Like other multilevel sampling procedures, MLDA utilizes a hierarchy of models that approximate the target distribution with varying fidelities. The implemented version comprises within-chain parallelism through [prefetching](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1198/106186006X100579), the expansion of possible future states of the Markov chain in a binary decision tree. The target density evaluations at these states can be performed in parallel, potentially increasing MCMC execution speed. This is particularly useful for scenarios where burn-in is significant, such that parallelizaion through multiple chains is inefficient. We combine MLDA with asynchronous prefetching, to make full use of a hierarchy of models with potentially vastly different evaluation times. The theoretical background and conceptual setup of the implementation can be found in the accompanying publication, ***Scalable Bayesian Inference of Large Simulations via Asynchronous Prefetching Multilevel Delayed Acceptance (to be published)***.

## Installation

The library in this repository is a Python package readily installable via `pip`, simply run
```bash
python pip install .
```
For development, we recommend using the great uv project management tool, for which Eikonax provides a universal lock file. To set up a reproducible environment, run 
```bash
uv sync --all-groups
```

## Usage

The [documentation](https://uqatkit.github.io/mtmlda/) provides further information regarding usage, theoretical background, technical setup and API. Alternatively, you can check out the runnable [examples](https://github.com/UQatKIT/mtmlda/tree/main/examples)

## License

This Software is distributed under the [MIT](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) license.

It has been developed as part of the innovation study **ScalaMIDA**. It has received funding through the **Inno4scale** project, which is funded by the European High-Performance Computing Joint Un-
dertaking (JU) under Grant Agreement No 101118139. The JU receives support from the European Union’s Horizon Europe Programme.
